
Learn great questions to ask a mentee

Learn great questions to ask a mentee
A good, open-ended question can get a mentee thinking in new ways, give you insights into their aspirations, and prompt fruitful conversations.
But what are those good questions? Of course, a lot of them will arise naturally out of your conversation and the specifics of a situation, but here are some that work well in a wide variety of situations. Practice these with direct reports, colleagues, or your Torch mentee.
What’s another way of looking at this?
Often your mentee is looking for you to show them a different way of looking at a problem, but putting the onus on them can often work better. Sometimes people are locked into one way of thinking, but asking this question will often prompt a period of reflection, followed by: “Well, I suppose I could…”
Where do you see yourself in ten years?
It may be a staple of job interviews, but that doesn’t mean it’s a bad question. Mentors help people achieve their full potential, and in order to do that, you need to direct efforts.
What are you doing well that will help you get there?
It’s helpful to build up your mentee's confidence by reminding them of all the resources they have at their disposal that will help them reach what may be a distant goal. It also helps you to understand their strengths and to devise a plan accordingly.
What could stop you from getting there?
Besides identifying strengths, you should consider obstacles. What is your mentee lacking in skills, resources, or know-how? You may be able to provide necessary resources, make introductions, or, best of all, help them determine how to leverage strengths or develop new ones in order to overcome challenges themselves.
What will you do differently tomorrow to meet those challenges?
This is based on one of Harvard Business Review’s “Five Questions Every Mentor Must Ask.” In that HBR article, Anthony K. Tjan writes, “People also have a tendency to practice and repeat what they are already good at doing. It’s human nature to show off your best side and hide weaknesses…Use this question to probe whether the person has the aptitude to change behavior.”
What else?
It’s a simple one, but it works. Often a mentee will hold something back, either intentionally or because of mere oversight, and this prompt can draw out extra details – often the ones that hold the key to solving the problem at hand. It also shows your mentee that you are truly interested in hearing everything they have to say and that mentorship isn’t constrained to a narrow set of issues.

